1. What data types do each of these values represent?
  1. "A Clockwork Orange"
    string

  2. 42
    integer

  3. 09/02/1945
    date

  4. 98.7
    floating point

  5. $15.99
    money

2.Explain when a database would be used. Explain when a text file would be used.
  We would want to use a database when we need a way to store data that is easy to search for specific data, when we need something that can handle multiple applications
  accessing that data, and that can handle data that persists beyond the end of a particular application process. Otherwise, we could use a text file.

3. Describe one difference between SQL and other programming languages.
  SQL is a declarative programming language, where you describe what you want to accomplish rather than the steps. Most of the other programming languages are procedural
  languages, where you describe step by step what is needed to accomplish a goal.

4. In your own words, explain how the pieces of a database system fit together at a high level.
  A database stores data in a binary format which cannot be read by humans, just computers. The data is stored within this format in a table with columns, similar
  to a spreadsheet. The table is then organized by different types of data, and also by data that has similar features. This data can then be accessed and manipulated.

5. Explain the meaning of table, row, column, and value.
  A table is a spreadsheet of sorts with rows and columns that holds data in a database. Columns have titles that indicate the type of data displayed, and also group
  data by similar features. Rows will also hold data that has a sort of relationship. Values are the specific data that is store in each place where a column and a row
  meet that makes up the table.

6. List three data types that can be used in a table.
  Three data types that could be used in a table could be: strings, integers, and dates.

7. Given this payments table, provide an English description of the following queries and include their results:

  SELECT date, amount
  FROM payments;

  Select two columns, data and amount, from the payments table

  SELECT amount
  FROM payments
  WHERE amount > 500;

  Select the amount column from the payments table where the values are greater than 500

  SELECT *
  FROM payments
  WHERE payee = 'Mega Foods';

  Select all columns from the payments table where the payee is Mega Foods

8. Given this users table, write SQL queries using the following criteria and include the output:
  -The email and sign-up date for the user named DeAndre Data.
    SELECT email, signup
    FROM users
    WHERE name = "DeAndre Data";

  -The user ID for the user with email 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'.
    SELECT userid
    FROM users
    WHERE email = 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu';

  -All the columns for the user ID equal to 4.
    SELECT *
    FROM users
    WHERE userid = 4;
